Updating windows for style and consistency (#1561)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: installation/windows.md

| [fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.exe](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.exe) | [61f5e1dcd5a8dd446020fb6d9b6ca2d42e143c94f7455df0296f26bcfc808b10](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.exe.sha256) |
| [fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.zip](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.zip) | [5cefb29e17cf6dd3bd6a321a90406c120a01b11376acbee7e43844ea0e72a1b7](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.zip.sha256) |
| [fluent-bit-3.2.4-winarm64.exe](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-winarm64.exe) | [acc841c1fbdaa4ab7f95b0f19a566f886fcf1a0dc6c724e9fa9263de5c6d7e3a](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-winarm64.exe.sha256) |
| [fluent-bit-3.2.4-winarm64.zip](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-winarm64.zip) | [46f7f259a7134ba1609bca97504092dc68bf3eebd8bc009041c34a24b17eef0e](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-winarm64.zip.sha256) |

These are now using the Github Actions built versions. Legacy AppVeyor builds are

> still available (AMD 32/64 only) at releases.fluentbit.io but are deprecated.

Reviewer: Should this URL be a working link?

Author: i decided to leave it as is because it's deprecated.

MSI installers are also available:

- [fluent-bit-3.2.4-win32.msi](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-win32.msi)
- [fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.msi](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.msi)
- [fluent-bit-3.2.4-winarm64.msi](https://packages.fluentbit.io/windows/fluent-bit-3.2.4-winarm64.msi)

To check the integrity, use the `Get-FileHash` cmdlet for PowerShell.

```text copy
PS> Get-FileHash fluent-bit-3.2.4-win32.exe
```

## Installing from a ZIP archive

1. Download a ZIP archive. Choose the suitable installers for your 32-bit or 64-bit
   environments.

> 1. Expand the ZIP archive. You can do this by clicking "Extract All" in Explorer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Expand the ZIP archive. You can do this by clicking **Extract All** in Explorer
```

   or `Expand-Archive` in PowerShell.

   ```text
   PS> Expand-Archive fluent-bit-3.2.4-win64.zip
   ```

   The ZIP package contains the following set of files.

   ```text
   fluent-bit
   ├── bin
   │   ├── fluent-bit.dll
   │   └── fluent-bit.exe
   │   └── fluent-bit.pdb
   ├── conf
   │   ├── fluent-bit.conf
   │   ├── parsers.conf
   │   └── plugins.conf
   └── include
       │   ├── flb_api.h
       │   ├── ...
       │   └── flb_worker.h
       └── fluent-bit.h
   ```

> 1. Launch `cmd.exe` or PowerShell on your machine, and execute `fluent-bit.exe`:.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Launch `cmd.exe` or PowerShell on your machine, and execute `fluent-bit.exe`:
```

[3] dummy.0: [1561684388.441405800, {"message"=>"dummy"}]
```

> To halt the process, press `CTRL-C` in the terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To halt the process, press `Control+C` in the terminal.
```

## Installing from the EXE installer

1. Download an EXE installer for the appropriate 32-bit or 64-bit build.
1. Double-click the EXE installer you've downloaded. The installation wizard starts.

   ![Installation wizard screenshot](<../.gitbook/assets/windows\_installer (1) (1).png>)

1. Click **Next** and finish the installation. By default, Fluent Bit is installed

>    into `C:\Program Files\fluent-bit\`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   in `C:\Program Files\fluent-bit\`.
```

You should be able to launch Fluent Bit using the following PowerShell command:.

```text
PS> C:\Program Files\fluent-bit\bin\fluent-bit.exe -i dummy -o stdout
```

### Installer options

The Windows installer is built by
[`CPack` using NSIS](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/cpack_gen/nsis.html)
and supports the [default NSIS options](https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Docs/Chapter3.html#3.2.1)
for silent installation and install directory.

To silently install to `C:\fluent-bit` directory here is an example:

```text
PS> <installer exe> /S /D=C:\fluent-bit
```

The uninstaller also supports a silent uninstall using the same `/S` flag.
This can be used for provisioning with automation like Ansible, Puppet, and so on.

## Windows service support

Windows services are equivalent to daemons in UNIX (long-running background
processes).

> For v1.5.0 and later, Fluent Bit has native support for Windows service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For v1.5.0 and later, Fluent Bit has native support for Windows services.
```

    ...
```

> To halt the Fluent Bit service, execute the `stop` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To halt the Fluent Bit service, use the `stop` command.
```

```text
sc.exe stop fluent-bit
```

To start Fluent Bit automatically on boot, execute the following:

```text
sc.exe config fluent-bit start= auto
```

## FAQs

### Fluent Bit fails to start up when installed under `C:\Program Files`

> Quotations are required if file paths contain spaces. Here is an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quotations are required if file paths contain spaces. For example:
```

Stop the service:

```text
PS> Stop-Service fluent-bit
```

Remove the service (requires PowerShell 6.0 or later)

```text
PS> Remove-Service fluent-bit
```

## Compile from Source

> If you need to create a custom executable, you can use the following procedure to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to create a custom executable, use the following procedure to
```

compile Fluent Bit by yourself.

### Preparation

1. Install Microsoft Visual C++ to compile Fluent Bit. You can install the minimum

> toolkit using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   toolkit using the following command:
```

```text
PS> wget -o vs.exe https://aka.ms/vs/16/release/vs_buildtools.exe
PS> start vs.exe
```

1. Choose `C++ Build Tools` and `C++ CMake tools for Windows` and wait until the process finishes.

> 1. Install flex and bison. One way to install them on Windows is to use [winflexbison](https://github.com/lexxmark/winflexbison).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install flex and bison. One way to install them on Windows is to use
[winflexbison](https://github.com/lexxmark/winflexbison).
```

   ```text
   PS> wget -o winflexbison.zip https://github.com/lexxmark/winflexbison/releases/download/v2.5.22/win_flex_bison-2.5.22.zip
   PS> Expand-Archive winflexbison.zip -Destination C:\WinFlexBison
   PS> cp -Path C:\WinFlexBison\win_bison.exe C:\WinFlexBison\bison.exe
   PS> cp -Path C:\WinFlexBison\win_flex.exe C:\WinFlexBison\flex.exe
   ```

1. Add the path `C:\WinFlexBison` to your systems environment variable `Path`.
   [Here's how to do that](https://www.architectryan.com/2018/03/17/add-to-the-path-on-windows-10/).

1. Install OpenSSL binaries, at least the library files and headers.

1. Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/download/win) to pull the source code from the repository.

   ```text
   PS> wget -o git.exe https://github.com/git-for-windows/git/releases/download/v2.28.0.windows.1/Git-2.28.0-64-bit.exe
   PS> start git.exe
   ```

### Compilation

1. Open the **Start menu** on Windows and type `command Prompt for VS`. From the result
   list, select the one that corresponds to your target system ( `x86` or `x64`).

> 1. Check that the installed OpenSSL library files match the selected target. You can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify the installed OpenSSL library files match the selected target. You can
```
